<chapter id="h2-basics"
><title
>Grundlæggende Bibelstudie</title>

<section id="h2-basics-purpose">
<title
>Vores formål når vi nærmer os Bibelen</title>
<para
>Jn.5:39-40<quote
>You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and it is these that bear witness of Me; and you are unwilling to come to Me, that you may have life.</quote
> </para>

<para
>The chief purpose of the book is to bring us to the Person. Martin Luther said <quote
>we go to the cradle only for the sake of the baby</quote
>; just so in Bible study, we do it not for its own sake but for fellowship with God. </para>
<blockquote
><attribution
>John R.W. Stott, <emphasis
>Christ the Controversialist</emphasis
>, InterVarsity Press 1978, pp.97, 104.</attribution>
<para
>The Jews to whom Jesus spoke [...] imagined that to possess Scripture was tantamount to possessing life. Hillel used to say, &quot;He who has gotten to himself words of Torah has gotten to himself the life of the world to come.&quot; Their study was an end in itself. In this they were grievously deceived. [...]</para>
<para
>There is neither merit nor profit in the reading of Scripture for its own sake, but only if it effectively introduces us to Jesus Christ. Whenever the Bible is read, what is needed is an eager expectation that through it we may meet Christ.</para>
</blockquote>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-approaches"
><title
>Tilgange til Guds Ord</title>
<para
>Lytning og læsning giver et teleskopisk syn af skriften, mens studie og udenadlære giver et microskopisk syn på skriften. Meditation på skriften samler lytning, læsning, studie og udenadlære og grundfæster det i vores hjerter.</para>

<section id="h2-basics-approaches-hear"
><title
>Hør</title>
<para
>Lk.11:28 <quote
>blessed are those who hear the word of God, and observe it.</quote
></para>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-approaches-read"
><title
>Læs</title>
<para
>Rev.1:3 <quote
>Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of this prophecy [...]</quote
></para>
<para
>1 Tim.4:13 <quote
>give attention to the public reading of Scripture [...]</quote
> </para>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-approaches-study"
><title
>Studere</title>
<para
>Acts 17:11 <quote
>Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily, to see whether these things were so.</quote
> </para>
<para
>2 Tim.2:15 <quote
>Be diligent [KJV `Study'] to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, handling accurately the word of truth.</quote
></para>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-approaches-memorize"
><title
>Lær uden ad</title>
<para
>Ps.119:11 <quote
>Thy word I have hid in my heart, that I may not sin against Thee.</quote
></para>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-approaches-meditate"
><title
>Meditér</title>
<para
>Ps.1:2-3 <quote
>But his delight is in the law of the Lord, And in His law he meditates day and night. And he will be like a tree firmly planted by streams of water, Which yields its fruit in its season, And its leaf does not wither; And in whatever he does, he prospers.</quote
> </para>

<para
>The Navigators illustrate this by saying that as the thumb can touch all the fingers, we can meditate on the Word as we do any of the first four. Meditation is a key to revelation. A new Christian needs to hear and read the Bible more than they need to study and memorize it. This is so that they become familiar with the overall message of the Bible.</para>
</section>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-types"
><title
>Typer af Bibelstudier</title>
<section id="basics-types-topical"
><title
>Emnestudie</title>
<para
>Vælg et særligt emne og følg det ved hjælp af kryds-referencer eller en ordforklaring.</para>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-types-character"
><title
>Studie af en person</title>
<para
>Studie af en person fra Bibelens liv, f.eks. Josefs liv i 1.Mos.37-50.</para
></section>
<section id="basics-types-expository"
><title
>Expository Study</title>
<para
>Studying a certain passage: paragraph, chapter, or book.</para>
</section>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-interpretation"
><title
>Basics of Correct Interpretation</title>

<section id="h2-basics-interpretation-content"
><title
>Indhold</title>
<para
>What does it say? What does it say in the original language? Be careful with definitions. Don't read into it what it doesn't say.</para>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-interpretation-context"
><title
>Context</title>
<para
>What do the verses around it say? &quot;Context is king&quot; is the rule -- the passage must make sense within the structure of the entire passage and book.</para>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-interpretation-cross"
><title
>Krydsreference</title>
<para
>What do other verses about this subject say through the rest of the Bible? God doesn't contradict Himself, so our interpretation needs to stand the test of other scriptures.</para>
</section>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-expository"
><title
>An Expository Study of Matthew 6:1-18</title>
<para
>Let's study together Mt.6:1-18. Read it to yourself, first looking for the key verse, the verse that sums up the whole passage. Think you have it? Test it by picking different places in the passage and asking yourself if they relate to the thought of the key verse. Once you find it, write it as Roman numeral One of your outline:</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperroman">
	<listitem
>Pas på med at udøve din retfærdighed foran mennesker, bare for at blive lagt mærke til</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para
>What does <quote
>practicing your righteousness</quote
> mean? Does the passage give any examples? What area of our lives is being addressed? <emphasis
>Our motives!</emphasis
> What sub-headings develop this thought?</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
	<listitem
>Når du giver</listitem>
 	<listitem
>Når du faster</listitem>
 	<listitem
>Når du beder</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para
>Now fill in the outline with specific instructions of how to avoid wrong ways of practicing our righteousness:</para>

<orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
  <listitem
>Når du giver <orderedlist numeration="loweralpha">
	     <listitem
>don't sound a trumpet. (how might someone <quote
>sound a trumpet</quote
> today?)</listitem>
     	<listitem
>do it secretly.</listitem>
		<listitem
>osv.</listitem>
	</orderedlist>
  </listitem>
</orderedlist>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-worksheet"
><title
>Worksheet: How to Use a Concordance</title>

<section id="h2-basics-worksheet-select"
><title
>For at finde et bestemt vers</title>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem
>Tag et nøgleord eller det mest usædvanlige ord i verset.</listitem>
	<listitem
>Turn to this word alphabetically.</listitem>
 	<listitem
>Go down the column of listings until you find your verse.</listitem>
</orderedlist>
	
<para
>Find de her vers: <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem
><quote
>Trofaste er sårene af en ven</quote
></listitem>
	<listitem
><quote
>Vi er Kristi udsendinge.</quote
></listitem>
	<listitem
>Historien om den rige mand og Lazarus.</listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>

</section>

<section id="h2-basics-worksheet-study"
><title
>Lav et emnestudie </title>
<para
>Lad os sige at du ville studere ordet &quot;fordømmelse.&quot; Først ville du slå ordet op i ordforklaringen og slå de skriftsteder op, som står ud for. Så kunne du slå beslægtede ord op, og slå op på de skriftsteder, f.eks. &quot;fordømme, fordømt, løsesum,&quot; endda &quot;købe&quot; eller &quot;købte.&quot; </para>
</section>


<section id="h2-basics-worksheet-clarify"
><title
>To Clarify Word Meanings in the Greek and Hebrew</title>
<para
>What if you noticed a contradiction in the KJV between Mt.7:1 <quote
>Judge not lest you be judged</quote
> and 1 Cor.2:15 <quote
>He that is spiritual judgeth all things.</quote
> Maybe there are two different Greek words here, both being translated &quot;judge&quot; in English? (We're using Strong's from here out.) </para>
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
	<listitem
><para
>Look up &quot;judge&quot;.</para
></listitem>
	<listitem
><para
>Go down the column of entries to Mt.7:1. To the right is a number, 2919. This refers to the Greek word used. Write it down.</para
></listitem>
	<listitem
><para
>Now look up &quot;judgeth&quot;.</para
></listitem>
	<listitem
><para
>Go down the column to 1 Cor.2:15 . . . . . 350.</para
></listitem>
	<listitem
><para
>Turn in the back to the Greek dictionary. (Remember, you're in the NT so the language is Greek, while the OT is Hebrew.) Compare the meaning of 2919 with the meaning of 350 and you have your answer! </para
></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</section>

<section id="h2-basics-worksheet-names"
><title
>At finde betydningen af navne</title>
<para
>By the same process we can find the meaning of a name in the Greek or Hebrew.</para>
<para
>Slå de har navne op og nedskriv deres betydning:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem
>Nabal</listitem>
<listitem
>Abigajil</listitem>
<listitem
>Josva</listitem>
<listitem
>Barnabas</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</section
> </section>
</chapter>
